=head1 NAME

Temma::Parser - A parser for the Temma template language

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Temma::Parser;
  
  $parser = Temma::Parser->new;
  $parser->parse_char_string ($text => $doc);
  $parser->parse_f ($path_class_file => $doc);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Temma::Parser> is a parser of the Temma markup language.

=head1 METHODS

Following methods are available:

=over 4

=item $parser = Temma::Parser->new

Create a new instance of the Temma parser.

=item $parser->onerror ($code)

=item $code = $parser->onerror

Get or set the error handler for the parser.  Any parse error, as well
as warning and additional processing information, is reported to the
handler.  See
<https://github.com/manakai/data-errors/blob/master/doc/onerror.txt>
for details of error handling.

The value should not be set while the parser is running.  If the value
is changed, the result is undefined.

=item $di = $parser->di

=item $parser->di ($di)

Get or set the "di" for the input to the parsing method.  It is used
for reporting errors.

The value should not be set while the parser is running.  If the value
is changed, the result is undefined.

See also SuikaWiki:manakai index data structure
<http://wiki.suikawiki.org/n/manakai%20index%20data%20structures>.

=item $dids = $parser->di_data_set

=item $parser->di_data_set ($dids)

Get or set the "di" data set for the parser.  It is used for
reporting errors.

The value should not be set while the parser is running.  If the value
is changed, the result is undefined.

See also SuikaWiki:manakai index data structure
<http://wiki.suikawiki.org/n/manakai%20index%20data%20structures>.

=item $parser->parse_char_string ($text => $doc)

Parse the text string and construct a C<Document> object (i.e. an
instance of the L<Web::DOM::Document>).

The first argument must be the source template document, represented
as a (possibly utf8-flagged) string of characters.

The second argument must be the C<Document> object.  Any child node is
replaced by the parsed document's child nodes.

=item $parser->parse_f ($f => $doc)

Parse the content of the file, decoded as UTF-8 text, and construct a
C<Document> object (i.e. an instance of the L<Web::DOM::Document>).

The first argument must be the C<Path::Class::File> object for the
file.

The second argument must be the C<Document> object.  Any child node is
replaced by the parsed document's child nodes.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Temma>, L<Temma::Language>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2012-2015 Wakaba <wakaba@suikawiki.org>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
